{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2706
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Problem Statement:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Water Resource Management in Pakistan
\f1\b0 \
Water scarcity is a critical issue in Pakistan due to increasing population, climate change, and inefficient use of available resources. Managing water resources effectively is key to ensuring sustainable development, agricultural productivity, and public health. The problem is to predict the water resource availability in different regions of Pakistan based on historical data, so that informed decisions can be made to improve water resource management.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Dataset:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The dataset from AQUASTAT contains information related to water resources, including variables like water usage, availability, and other related metrics across various regions and years. Using this dataset, we can predict water resource availability for different regions in Pakistan.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Solution:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The solution involves building a predictive model that can forecast water availability using machine learning techniques. Two models have been implemented:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Random Forest Regression Model
\f1\b0 : This model predicts water resource availability using a decision-tree-based ensemble method. It has shown some predictive capability, as seen from the scatter plot of predictions vs. actual values.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Neural Network Regression Model
\f1\b0 : A deep learning approach that uses TensorFlow to predict water availability. The performance of this model might require further tuning and more data to improve its predictive power, as shown by the visualization.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Model Outputs:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Visualization
\f1\b0 : The scatter plots of predictions vs. actual values help visualize how well the models are performing. Ideally, the predictions should align closely with the actual values along the red dashed line.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Random Forest Model
\f1\b0 : The model shows a reasonable fit, with most predictions close to the actual values.\
\ls2\ilvl1
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Neural Network Model
\f1\b0 : The performance of this model appears to be less accurate, suggesting the need for further optimization (e.g., more layers, neurons, or hyper-parameter tuning).\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Model Metrics
\f1\b0 : Both models should be evaluated using metrics such as Mean Squared Error (MSE) and R-Squared, which provide quantitative insights into the models' performance. Lower MSE and higher R-Squared values indicate better performance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Next Steps:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Model Tuning
\f1\b0 : Further hyper-parameter tuning can be done for both models, particularly the neural network, to improve predictions.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Feature Engineering
\f1\b0 : Additional features can be engineered from the dataset to enhance the model's predictive power.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Scaling Up
\f1\b0 : The model can be scaled by incorporating more data and testing it on different regions within Pakistan.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Conclusion:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 This project provides a data-driven approach to addressing the water resource management problem in Pakistan. By predicting water availability, policymakers can make informed decisions about resource allocation, infrastructure investment, and environmental protection measures, ultimately contributing to sustainable development.\
}